dev/rules/project.md, before:

# How to work with the unifill project

This document outlines the key guidelines and resources for working with the
unifill project, a Telescope-based Neovim plugin for inserting Unicode
characters.

## Project Documentation

The main project documentation can be found in [README.txt](../../README.txt),
which covers:

- Basic plugin description and usage
- Installation instructions
- Dataset generation and management
- Development setup and testing

## External Documentation

The project leverages Telescope for its UI. The developer documentation is
maintained in the `tmp` directory (not under source control):

- [Telescope Developer Guide](../../tmp/telescope-developers.md) - For
  understanding the Telescope extension architecture

## Development Guidelines

1. **Code Changes**

   - All code changes must be accompanied by corresponding tests
   - Tests should verify both functionality and edge cases
   - Use the plenary.nvim testing framework (see spec/ directory)

2. **Testing**

   - Run tests locally before submitting changes: `bin/run-tests`
   - Tests are automatically run via GitHub Actions on push/PR
   - Test files should follow the plenary test format

3. **Dataset Management**

   - The Unicode dataset is stored as a Lua lookup table for performance
   - Generate updated dataset using `bin/fetch-data`
   - Dataset changes should be tested thoroughly

4. **Documentation**

   - Keep README.txt updated with any user-facing changes
   - Note that the README.txt is txxt formatted, not markdown. Just follow the
     file's convention, but do not format this as markdown.
   - Document new features and configuration options
   - Update development docs when changing core functionality

5. File layout:

```text
├── README.txt -> keep updated and read it. txxt, not markdown.
├── bin
│   ├── fetch-data -> calls the script to gen the dataset and places it in data.
│   └── run-tests -> run tests, used all the timed, hopefully.
├── data
│   └── unifill-datafetch -> data set
├── dev -> dev oriented information
│   └── rules -> rules for coding assistant (this doc)
├── spec -> .plenary tests
├── unifill-datafetch -> python fetcher for the dataset.
│   └── src
│       └── setup_dataset.py -> .the main file.
└── unifill.lua -> core plugin functionality.
```

Commit message:

Refactor unifill plugin structure: add modular Lua files for data loading, formatting, searching, and telescope integration; update project documentation with file layout and module structure details.

dev/rules/project.md, after:

# How to work with the unifill project

This document outlines the key guidelines and resources for working with the
unifill project, a Telescope-based Neovim plugin for inserting Unicode
characters.

## Project Documentation

The main project documentation can be found in [README.txt](../../README.txt),
which covers:

- Basic plugin description and usage
- Installation instructions
- Dataset generation and management
- Development setup and testing

## External Documentation

The project leverages Telescope for its UI. The developer documentation is
maintained in the `tmp` directory (not under source control):

- [Telescope Developer Guide](../../tmp/telescope-developers.md) - For
  understanding the Telescope extension architecture

## Development Guidelines

1. **Code Changes**

   - All code changes must be accompanied by corresponding tests
   - Tests should verify both functionality and edge cases
   - Use the plenary.nvim testing framework (see spec/ directory)

2. **Testing**

   - Run tests locally before submitting changes: `bin/run-tests`
   - Tests are automatically run via GitHub Actions on push/PR
   - Test files should follow the plenary test format

3. **Dataset Management**

   - The Unicode dataset is stored as a Lua lookup table for performance
   - Generate updated dataset using `bin/fetch-data`
   - Dataset changes should be tested thoroughly

4. **Documentation**

   - Keep README.txt updated with any user-facing changes
   - Note that the README.txt is txxt formatted, not markdown. Just follow the
     file's convention, but do not format this as markdown.
   - Document new features and configuration options
   - Update development docs when changing core functionality

5. **File Layout**

```text
├── README.txt -> keep updated and read it. txxt, not markdown.
├── bin
│   ├── fetch-data -> calls the script to gen the dataset and places it in data.
│   └── run-tests -> run tests, used all the timed, hopefully.
├── data
│   └── unifill-datafetch -> data set
├── dev -> dev oriented information
│   └── rules -> rules for coding assistant (this doc)
├── lua
│   └── unifill -> plugin source code
│       ├── init.lua -> main entry point and plugin setup
│       ├── data.lua -> data loading functionality
│       ├── format.lua -> text formatting utilities
│       ├── search.lua -> search scoring and matching
│       └── telescope.lua -> telescope integration
├── spec -> .plenary tests
├── unifill-datafetch -> python fetcher for the dataset.
│   └── src
│       └── setup_dataset.py -> .the main file.
└── unifill.lua -> legacy entry point (deprecated)
```

## Module Structure

The plugin's code is organized into these logical components:

- **init.lua**: Main entry point, exports public API, handles plugin setup
- **data.lua**: Handles loading and processing of Unicode data
- **format.lua**: Text formatting utilities for display
- **search.lua**: Search algorithm implementation
- **telescope.lua**: Telescope picker integration and UI

Each module has a specific responsibility and exports only the necessary functions.
This separation makes the code more maintainable and easier to test.
